What are Java collections?with Details
 Java collections refer to a collection of individual objects that are represented as a single unit. 
You can perform all operations such as searching, sorting, insertion, manipulation, deletion, etc., on Java collections just like you do it on data.
What is a Java Collection Framework?

A Java collection framework provides an architecture to store and manipulate a group of objects. A Java collection framework includes the following:

Interfaces
Classes
Algorithm
Let’s learn about them in detail:

Interfaces: Interface in Java refers to the abstract data types. They allow Java collections to be manipulated independently from the details of their representation
. Also, they form a hierarchy in object-oriented programming languages.

Classes: Classes in Java are the implementation of the collection interface. It basically refers to the data structures that are used again and again.

Algorithm: Algorithm refers to the methods which are used to perform operations such as searching and sorting, on objects that implement collection interfaces. 
Algorithms are polymorphic in nature as the same method can be used to take many forms or you can say perform different implementations of the Java collection interface.
Why use Java collection?
There are several benefits of using Java collections such as:

1.Reducing the effort required to write the code by providing useful data structures and algorithms
2.Java collections provide high-performance and high-quality data structures and algorithms thereby increasing the speed and quality
3.Unrelated APIs can pass collection interfaces back and forth
4.Decreases extra effort required to learn, use, and design new API’s
5.Supports reusability of standard data structures and algorithms

Java Collections : Interface
Iterator interface : Iterator is an interface that iterates the elements. It is used to traverse the list and modify the elements. Iterator interface has three methods which are mentioned below: 

1.public boolean hasNext() – This method returns true if the iterator has more elements.
2.public object next() – It returns the element and moves the cursor pointer to the next element.
3.public void remove() – This method removes the last elements returned by the iterator. 


